release-notes: add 10.2.0 (#1067)
osism/osism.github.io: docs/release-notes/osism-10.md

| Release | Release Date   |
|:--------|:---------------|
| 10.2.0  | 14.August      |
| 10.1.0  | 16. June 2026  |
| 10.0.0  | 22. March 2026 |

## 10.2.0

* All OpenStack service images have been rebuilt. An upgrade of OpenStack services is recommended.

* The infrastructure service images (MariaDB, RabbitMQ, ..) have been rebuilt. An upgrade is recommended.

* The network service images (OVN, OVS) have been rebuilt. An upgrade is recommended.

* The monitoring service images (Prometheus & all Prometheus exporters) have been rebuilt. An upgrade is recommended.

> * The logging service images (OpenSearch, Fluentd) have been rebuilt. An upgrade is recommended.

Reviewer: I am a bit confused, since this sounds like everything has been rebuilt and since I would expect that, I don't understand why it is mentioned here.

Reviewer: If the goal here is to tell people to upgrade from the previous 10.1.0 version, I would probably mention which CVEs have been fixed between 10.1.0 and 10.2.0.

### Rook removed as a Ceph deployment option

> Rook never moved beyond a technical preview in OSISM and was never exercised in the nightly pipelines. It has been removed completely: the `rook` and `rook_operator` roles, the vendored Helm charts, the `kubernetes-rook*` playbooks in osism-kubernetes, the `rook` install type in cephclient, and the related node label defaults are all gone. If you deployed rook for Ceph via osism-kubernetes, deploy it directly from the upstream project instead; OSISM no longer provides an integration for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rook never moved beyond a technical preview in OSISM and was never exercised in the nightly pipelines. It has been removed completely: the `rook` and `rook_operator` roles, the vendored Helm charts, the `kubernetes-rook*` playbooks in osism-kubernetes, the `rook` install type in cephclient, and the related node label defaults are all gone. If you deployed rook for Ceph via osism-kubernetes we recommend to migrate directly to the upstream project. This, and future OSISM release no longer provide integrations beyond the scrope of the upstream project.
```

- Set `frr_exporter_enable: true` to run `prometheus-frr-exporter` alongside FRR on Debian-family hosts (binds to `127.0.0.1:9342` by default, configurable via `frr_exporter_host`/`frr_exporter_port`). Off by default, and not available on the RedHat family.

### Configuration repository updates now preserve local files

`osism apply configuration` force-checks out the configuration repository, which used to discard local modifications to tracked files. In a monorepo setup (NetBox as a directory instead of a submodule), this reset `netbox/settings.toml` to the repository placeholder on every update, dropping the local NetBox URL and API token and breaking manager-to-NetBox communication until it was fixed manually.

Set `configuration_git_preserve_files` to keep specific files intact across an update:

```yaml
configuration_git_preserve_files:
  - netbox/settings.toml
```

> The default is an empty list, so existing deployments are unaffected until you opt in.

Reviewer: This should be added to our documentation.

- Cinder: a NetApp NVMe/TCP multipath fix so `initialize_connection` returns all available target portals.
- The experimental `kolla-mariadb-ng`, `kolla-rabbitmq-ng` and `kolla-loadbalancer-ng` playbooks and their client-side roles were removed; they never moved beyond a tech preview. `osism apply mariadb`, `rabbitmq` and `loadbalancer` already run the regular, actively maintained plays.

#### Security fixes

- Keystone: fixed unauthorized EC2 credential creation and deletion (CVE-2026-33551) and an RBAC policy bypass (CVE-2026-42999), plus further CVE patches.
- Nova: instance creation no longer accepts forged internal scheduler hints (CVE-2026-46448), and the websocket proxy no longer mutates its allowed-origins config from request Host headers (OSSN-0101).
- Neutron: fixed cross-project access to router conntrack helpers and floating IP port forwarding (OSSN-0102), and non-admin users onboarding subnets of networks they don't own (CVE-2026-55707).
- Designate: fixed split-horizon DNS query pool scoping, zones scheduled to non-default pools now require TSIG keys, and a cross-tenant zone-ownership bypass was closed.

### CLI and manager service

> - New `osism openstack` command passes any subcommand straight through to the OpenStack CLI using the credentials from your configuration repository, so a separate openstack container is no longer needed to reach the encrypted `secure.yml`. Defaults to the `admin` cloud; override with `--cloud`.

Reviewer: This should be added to our documentation.
